docs(recipes) update Prisma recipe to Prisma 2 (#1344)
nestjs/docs.nestjs.com: content/recipes/prisma.md

#### Getting started

In this recipe, you'll learn how to get started with NestJS and Prisma from scratch. You are going to build a sample NestJS application with a REST API that can read and write data in a database. 

For the purpose of this guide, you'll use a [SQLite](http://sqlite.org/) database to save the overhead of setting up a database server. Note that you can still follow this guide, even if you're using PostgreSQL or MySQL – you'll get extra instructions for using these databases at the right places.

In the following sections, you will:

1. Create your NestJS project
1. Set up Prisma
1. Create your SQLite database file and set the database connection
1. Create two database tables
1. Introspect your database to obtain your Prisma models in the Prisma schema
1. Install and generate Prisma Client
1. Use Prisma Client in your NestJS services
1. Implement your REST API routes in the main app controller

##### 1. Create your NestJS project

To get started, install the NestJS CLI and create your app skeleton with the following commands:

> ```bash

Author: Good point, added the `$` sign prefixes for terminal commands 👍

npm install -g @nestjs/cli
nest create hello-prisma
```

See the [First steps](https://docs.nestjs.com/first-steps) page to learn more about the project files created by this command. Note also that you can now run `npm start` to start your application. The REST API running at `http://localhost:3000/` currently serves a single route that's implemented in `src/app.controller.ts`. Over the course of this guide, you'll implement additional routes to store and retrieve data about _users_ and _posts_. 

##### 2. Set up Prisma

Start by installing the Prisma CLI as a development dependency in your project:

```bash
npm install @prisma/cli --save-dev
```

As a best practice, it's recommended to invoke the CLI locally by prefixing it with `npx`:

```bash
npx prisma
```

<details><summary>Expand if you're using Yarn</summary>

If you're using Yarn, then you can install the Prisma CLI as follows:

```bash
yarn add @prisma/cli --dev
```

Once installed, you can invoke it by prefixing it with `yarn`:

```bash
yarn prisma
```

</details>

Now create your initial Prisma setup using the `init` command of the Prisma CLI:

```bash
npx prisma init
```

> This command created a new `prisma` directory with the following contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates a new `prisma` directory with the following contents:
```

- `schema.prisma`: Specifies your database connection and contains the database schema

> - `.env`: A [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) file, typically used to store your database credentials in an environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.env`: A [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) file, typically used to store your database credentials in a group of environment variables
```

##### 3. Create your SQLite database file and set the database connection

> SQLite databases are simple files, no server is required to use a SQLite database. You can therefore create a new SQLite database by manually creating a new file on your file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQLite databases are simple files; no server is required to use a SQLite database. You can therefore create a new SQLite database by manually creating a new file on your file system.
```

  "title"     TEXT    NOT NULL,
  "content"   TEXT,
  "published" BOOLEAN DEFAULT false,
  "authorId"  INTEGER REFERENCES "User"(id)
);
'
```

**Windows**

```bash
sqlite3 ./prisma/dev.db 
CREATE TABLE "User" (
  "id"    INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
  "name"  TEXT,
  "email" TEXT    NOT NULL UNIQUE
);
CREATE TABLE "Post" (
  "id"        INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
  "title"     TEXT    NOT NULL,
  "content"   TEXT,
  "published" BOOLEAN DEFAULT false,
  "authorId"  INTEGER REFERENCES "User"(id)
);
```

Note that Prisma also features a _schema migration_ tool called [Prisma Migrate](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/prisma-migrate). Prisma Migrate lets you manually define your models in your Prisma schema and takes care of creating the tables in your database. Because Prisma Migrate is currently considered experimental, this guide uses an alternative workflow of using plain SQL to create your database tables and generate Prisma models via [introspection](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/introspection). 

##### 5. Introspect your database to obtain your Prisma models in the Prisma schema

> Now that you created your database tables, you can _introspect_ the database to generate your [Prisma models](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/prisma-schema/models). After that, you will install and generate Prisma Client which will expose queries that are _tailored_ to these models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've created your database tables, you can _introspect_ the database to generate your [Prisma models](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/prisma-schema/models). After that, you will install and generate Prisma Client, which will expose queries that are _tailored_ to these models.
```

To introspect your database, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx prisma introspect
```

This reads your SQL schema and translates each table into a corresponding Prisma model. Your `schema.prisma` file now looks as follows:

```prisma
generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

model User {
  email String  @unique
  id    Int     @default(autoincrement()) @id
  name  String?
  Post  Post[]
}

model Post {
  authorId  Int?
  content   String?
  id        Int      @default(autoincrement()) @id
  published Boolean? @default(false)
  title     String
  User      User?    @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])
}
```

With your Prisma models in place, you can install and generate Prisma Client.

##### 6. Install and generate Prisma Client

To install Prisma Client in your project, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm install @prisma/client
```

> Note that this command automatically invokes the `prisma generate` command for you. In the future, you need to run this command after _every_ change to your Prisma models to update your generated Prisma Client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that during installation, Prisma automatically invokes the `prisma generate` command for you. In the future, you need to run this command after _every_ change to your Prisma models to update your generated Prisma Client.
```

> **Note** The `prisma generate` command reads your Prisma schema and updates the generated Prisma Client library inside `node_modules/@prisma/client`.

##### 7. Use Prisma Client in your NestJS services

> You're now able to send database queries with Prisma Client! If you want to learn about the possible queries with Prisma Client, check out the [API documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/prisma-client/crud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're now able to make database requests from Nest with Prisma Client. If you want to learn more about building queries with Prisma Client, check out the [API documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/tools-and-interfaces/prisma-client/crud).
```

Author: I'm not 100% sure about this one since "database queries" is our official terminology when using Prisma Client so I'd prefer using that instead of "database requests". But I adopted all of your other suggestions in my PR manually 👍

  UserCreateInput,
  UserWhereUniqueInput,
  UserWhereInput,
  UserOrderByInput,
} from '@prisma/client';

@Injectable()
export class UserService {
  constructor(private prisma: PrismaService) {}

  async user(userWhereUniqueInput: UserWhereUniqueInput): Promise<User | null> {
    return this.prisma.user.findOne({
      where: userWhereUniqueInput,
    });
  }

  async users(params: {
    skip?: number,
    take?: number,
    cursor?: UserWhereUniqueInput,
    where?: UserWhereInput,
    orderBy?: UserOrderByInput,
  }): Promise<User[]> {
    const { skip, take, cursor, where, orderBy } = params
    return this.prisma.user.findMany({
      skip,
      take,
      cursor,
      where,
      orderBy,
    });
  }

  async createUser(data: UserCreateInput): Promise<User> {
    return this.prisma.user.create({
      data,
    });
  }

  async updateUser(params: {
    where: UserWhereUniqueInput,
    data: UserUpdateInput,
  }): Promise<User> {
    const { where, data } = params
    return this.prisma.user.update({
      data,
      where,
    });
  }

  async deleteUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput): Promise<User> {
    return this.prisma.user.delete({
      where,
    });
  }
}
```

> Notice how you're using Prisma Client's generated types to ensure that the methods that are exposed by your service are properly typed! You therefore save the boilerplate of typing your models and creating additional interface or DTO files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how you're using Prisma Client's generated types to ensure that the methods that are exposed by your service are properly typed. You therefore save the boilerplate of typing your models and creating additional interface or DTO files.
```

    return this.userService.createUser(userData);
  }

  @Put('publish/:id')
  async publishPost(@Param('id') id: string): Promise<PostModel> {
    return this.postService.updatePost({
      where: { id: Number(id) },
      data: { published: true },
    });
  }

  @Delete('/post:id')
  async deletePost(@Param('id') id: string): Promise<PostModel> {
    return this.postService.deletePost({ id: Number(id) });
  }
}
```

This controller implements the following routes:

###### `GET`

- `/post/:id`: Fetch a single post by its `id`
- `/feed`: Fetch all _published_ posts
- `/filterPosts/:searchString`: Filter posts by `title` or `content`

###### `POST`

- `/post`: Create a new post
  - Body:
    - `title: String` (required): The title of the post
    - `content: String` (optional): The content of the post
    - `authorEmail: String` (required): The email of the user that creates the post
- `/user`: Create a new user
  - Body:
    - `email: String` (required): The email address of the user
    - `name: String` (optional): The name of the user

###### `PUT`

- `/publish/:id`: Publish a post by its `id`

###### `DELETE`

- `/post/:id`: Delete a post by its `id`

#### Summary

> In this guide, you learned how to implement a use NestJS together with Prisma to implement a REST API. The controller who implements the routes of the API is calling a `PrismaService` which in turn uses Prisma Client to send queries to a database to fulfill the data needs of incoming requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this recipe, you learned how to use Prisma along with NestJS to implement a REST API. The controller that implements the routes of the API is calling a `PrismaService` which in turn uses Prisma Client to send queries to a database to fulfill the data needs of incoming requests.
```
